.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Cosylab d.d. https://www.cosylab.com
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

autoparamDriver
===============

``autoparamDriver`` is an EPICS module that facilitates writing a generic device
driver based on ``asyn`` that does not know ahead of time which (or how many)
parameters the device supports, delegating the job of defining them to the EPICS
database. If you've ever used EPICS modules like ``modbus`` or ``s7plc``, you
already know what this is about. In any case, check out the documentation to
learn what ``autoparamDriver`` can do for you.

Website and online documentation: https://epics.cosylab.com

**Note:** When learning how to use ``autoparamDriver``, please *do not* try to
learn from the ``autoparamTestApp`` included with the driver. As its name says,
it is used for testing and is not a good resource. Please refer to the
*Tutorial* section of the documentation instead.

Installation
------------

Familiarity with installation of EPICS modules is assumed.

Dependencies:

* `EPICS base <https://epics-controls.org/>`_, tested with version 7.0.5
* `asyn <https://epics.anl.gov/modules/soft/asyn/>`_, tested with version R4-41

Dependencies for building documentation:

* `doxygen <https://www.doxygen.nl/index.html>`_
* `sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org>`_ with ``sphinx_rtd_theme``
* `breathe <https://breathe.readthedocs.io>`_

To install:

* configure the ``configuration/RELEASE`` file, pointing the ``EPICS_BASE`` and
  ``ASYN`` variables to the locations where EPICS base and ``asyn`` are
  installed (this is more efficiently done by placing a ``RELEASE.local`` file a
  level above the ``autoparamDriver`` directory);
* configure any other build settings as needed for your EPICS environment (if
  you don't know what this means, it's probably not needed);
* run ``make``.

To use from another module:

* configure the ``configuration/RELEASE`` file *of the depending module*,
  setting the ``EPICS_BASE``, ``ASYN`` and ``AUTOPARAM`` variables to the
  locations where the respective modules are installed;
* update ``yourIocApp/src/Makefile`` adding

  * ``yourIoc_DBD += asyn.dbd``
  * ``yourIoc_LIBS += autoparamDriver``
  * ``yourIoc_LIBS += asyn``

* follow the tutorial in the documentation.

To build documentation:

* install ``doxygen``, ``breathe``, ``sphinx`` and ``sphinx_rtd_theme``;
* run ``make docs``;
* find the documentation at ``docs/build/html/index.html``.

License
=======

Copyright 2022 Cosylab d.d. https://www.cosylab.com

Provided under the terms of the MIT license.

Files that are trivial, generated by the EPICS build system, or otherwise
considered to contain little creative expression, are provided under the terms
of the MIT-0 license.

See the ``LICENSES/`` directory and headers of individual files for more
information. This package is `REUSE <https://reuse.software/>`_ compliant.
